COMBINATORY CATEGORIAL GRAMMAR

Categorial Grammar (CG, Ajdukiewicz 1935; Bar-Hillel 1953) is one of the 
oldest lexicalized grammar formalisms, in which all grammatical constituents 
are distinguished by a syntactic type identifying them as either a function from 
arguments of one type to results of another, or as an argument. Such types, 
or categories, are transparently related to to the semantic type of the linguis- 
tic expression itself, differing mainly in the inclusion of information about 
language-speciﬁc linear order. 
The earliest forms of CG were immediately recognized as being contextfree and weakly equivalent to context-free phrase-structure grammars (CFPSG, Bar-Hillel, Gaifman and Shamir 1964). Soon after their elaboration by Bar-Hillel, Lambek (1958) cast CG as a logical calculus, which was also widely (and correctly) assumed to be context-free, although the actual proof—due to Pentus (1993)—was much harder to discover. The early evidence of weak equivalence to CFPSG led to a partial eclipse of CG in the 1960’s. However, interest in CG on the part of syntacticians and computational linguists began to revive in the late 1970’s and early 1980’s. One reason for this revival came from contemporary developments in formalizing a type-driven semantics for natural language in the work of Richard 
Montague (1974) and his followers (see Partee 1976), which made the syntactic/semantic type-transparency of CG attractive. Another reason was the realization that transformational generative grammar was overly expressive (Peters and Ritchie 1973), leading to a search for more minimal extensions of context-free core grammars of various kinds (e.g. Gazdar 1981), including CG (e.g. Karlgren 1974, Landsbergen 1982). Some early extensions to CG were “combinatory” in nature, extending the core CG with functional operations on adjacent categories, such as “wrap” (Bach 1979; Dowty 1979),functional composition (Ades and Steedman 1982), type-raising (Steedman 1985), and substitution (Szabolcsi 1989). These developments in turn led to a revival of interest in the non-combinatory type-logical alternative stemming from Lambek’s work in the late 1950’s, in which some but not all of these combinatory extensions emerged as theorems (see Oehrle, this volume). The distinction between combinatory and type-logical approaches has remained fairly sharp since these early developments. On the one hand, Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) of the kind presented in this chapter has retained an active concern with keeping expressive power and automata-theoretic complexity to a minimum, and has been actively involved with issues of linguistic explanation and practical computational linguistics, including wide-coverage parsing using statistical models. On the other hand, the Lambek tradition of type-logical grammars has been more concerned with theoretical issues and relations to logic and theorem-proving. This chapter presents a formulation of CCG that goes some way toward reconciling this difference. While we retain the combinatory apparatus and low expressive power, we also incorporate the slash-typing characteristic of multi-modal type-logical grammar as the sole means of constraining derivation in CCG. This move allows the rules of the system to be stratiﬁed and selectively used in lexically speciﬁed contexts, thereby removing the need for the category-based restrictions on combinatory rules used for this purpose in previous formulations of CCG. We begin by motivating CCG in terms of the current state of linguistic theory and then outline the modalized version of the formalism. CCG is then applied 
to the bounded constructions (binding, reﬂexivization, heavy NP shift, dative shift, raising, object and subject control, and passive). Next, we give analyses for the unbounded constructions (including extraction, scrambling, and coordination) in a number of languages, including English, Dutch, Japanese, Turkish, and Irish Gaelic. Finally, we brieﬂy consider intonation structure and parentheticalization in English and end with some remarks on implications for the theory of performance. 
